as winter draws to a close male deer
drop their antlers this annual event
provides a great chance to collect some
of nature's finest art works whether
used in decorative projects or displayed
as is antlers can bring outdoor charm
into your home now is the time to hunt
shed antlers antlers may be found in
fields or woodlands food is the key to
winter deer movement and trails that
connect feed fields and bedding areas
are good places to look antlers are
often lost at fence crossings when bucks
jump the wires sometimes antlers are
lost in heavy cover where a buck beds
for the day those in open wheat fields
are easiest to find since they stand out
against a green background even in good
dear country finding Ahlers can be a
challenge plan to do some serious
walking a pair of binoculars is helpful
in checking your surroundings a trained
dog can be an asset and retrieving
antlers spotted in the distance while
giant antlers are a special bonus even
small ones can make a successful hunt
sometimes you might be lucky enough to
find a matched set looking at this time
of year may also turn up the bleached
skulls of bucks that did not survive the
winter it's not uncommon to find shed
antlers from previous years these are
usually evident by their greyish color
and dry cracked appearance fresh antlers
are lustrous and then checked fresh
antlers are also less likely to be
chewed by rodents that non them for
minerals hunting shed antlers is a great
way to enjoy the Kansas outdoors always
ask permission before entering private
land get some exercise and fresh air and
you might go home with a regal treasure
from one of Kansas favorite animals I'm
Mike Blair for Kansas Wildlife and Parks